# Monitoring the Power Platform: For PowerApps Portal
## Summary

Instrumentation of Power Apps Canvas Applications is a feature first released in a preview of the Release Wave 1 for 2020. This out of the box capability allows for the capturing and examination of usage and performance metrics. This article will focus on current tooling available and describing the steps to setup Azure Application Insights within a Canvas Application. We will also examine the currently available events and metrics sent from an application and how to work with the Monitoring Tool.

Considering the importance and interest in audit and activity logging, this article will briefly touch on how to gather this information from the Office 365 Security and Compliance Center.

## What are Canvas Apps

Power Apps Canvas Apps represent a no or low code approach to building and delivering modern applications for makers. The requirements of knowing programming languages such as C# have been removed allowing makers of virtually any background to build apps. These apps can be used with connectors to hundreds of connectors allowing for a flexible user interface layered on top of data sources. Apps can also be generated from data sources automatically allowing you to quickly create and deploy an application to your team or customers. Reference: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powerapps/maker/canvas-apps/getting-started

Included in the Maker Portal are example Power Apps to help curate ideas and help as a jumping off point. These samples can be extended to include your custom connectors, business processes, etc.

For example, imagine having an excel spreadsheet your team works on to track expenses. In the past we would share the spreadsheet or a template with out colleagues and enter our individual entries each cell and row at a time. With the inclusion of the Microsoft Excel connector I can now have an app available both on my workstation and mobile allowing me to view and enter data in a much more friendly experience. This application can be built without knowledge or using a single line of code using the Power Apps Designer.

Finally, the Canvas App community is extensive and a great place to collaborate and contribute ideas and discussions: https://aka.ms/powerapps-community

## Power Apps Analytics





https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/admin/analytics-powerapps