# Monitoring the Power Platform: Dataverse - Capacity

## Summary

Model Driven Apps represent a complete solution for organizations to maximize impact while reducing maintenance costs, deep technical experience. They allow businesses to not be over encumbered with the tasks of maintaining a line of business applications while instead focusing on their customers needs. Model Driven Apps help organizations reduce dispersed data silos by consolidating data within Dataverse. Once data is within Dataverse the platform can work to enrich data and reduce complexities of data governance and compliance.

This article will focus on a top of mind subject to many: Capacity. We will look at where to go to stay up to date on documentation regarding changes to capacity modeling. Next, we will discuss how to locate the current capacity reports. Finally, we will look at techniques to extract and store capacity to help identify trends or create custom reporting and analytical dashboards and visualizations.

## Dataverse Capacity Documentation

[New Microsoft Dataverse storage capacity - Power Platform | Microsoft Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/admin/capacity-storage)

To better understand the current storage model, refer to the 'New Microsoft Dataverse storage capacity' article on Microsoft Docs. This document details the breakdown of storage both by license and data type. Included as well is a direct link to the Power Apps and Power Automate licensing guide.

At the bottom of the page, you'll find an informative FAQ that should help address most questions including growth anomalies, internal mechanisms such as indexing, and notifications if tenants are over capacity.

### What about Environments not using databases?

Per the article at the time of this writing, all environments consume at least 1 GB, regardless if a databases is associated.

### How can I tell which Environments currently have a database?

I have seen this question come up both from the storage perspective and from the licensing perspective. Currently, the Power Platform Admin Center does not have a consolidated view showing which environments have an associated database. Administrators will have to go into each environment individually to check this information.

### Using Power Apps Admin PowerShell for CDS Linkage Reporting

I would recommend using the Power Apps PowerShell modules to help with reporting. The '[Get-AdminPowerAppEnvironment](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powerapps.administration.powershell/get-adminpowerappenvironment?view=pa-ps-latest)' cmdlet within the Microsoft.PowerApps.Administration.PowerShell module can report a single or all environments within a tenant. Included in the information returned is a value informing if a CDS database exists and what version is applied.

<insert CDS image here>

Here is a look at an environment that does not have a CDS database attached to it:

<insert non CDS image here>

To quickly get started using PowerShell to document the current environments in an organization's tenant, I've provided sample code below. The code will log in as a Service Principal and report to a csv.

## Locating the current capacity reports in the Power Platform Admin Center

To locate the current capacity, navigate to the **Power Platform Admin Center** as [documented here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/admin/capacity-storage). Once in the Power Platform Admin Center, locate the Resources list item on the left and expand to show the Capacity button.

<insert capacity button image>

Once the window refreshes, administrators will be presented with three tabs providing a Summary, storage capacity per environment and storage capacity for Microsoft Teams.

<insert tabs image>

The documentation does a great job detailing the current capacity usage and sources based on organization defaults, licenses and additional storage purchased.

<insert capacity image with red dots>

### Viewing Environment Table Allocation

Within the capacity window, each environment can be drilled into using the 'Storage Capacity' tab. Once opened, each environment, including environments without Common Data Service databases, will be shown. Every environment will show storage details broken down by database, file and log usage. This view provides administrators a high level view that can be sorted by environment type and by each of the usage buckets.

<show list of environments image>

Below you'll find a sample showing how to download and view an environment's table usage.

<insert table gif>

### Over Capacity Notifications

If the tenant has exhausted all available storage, administrators will be notified once they log into the Power Platform Admin Center and view capacity. The notification does require the administrator to log in to view the capacity as shown in the image below.

<insert over capacity image>

Environment creators can also receive similar notifications when attempting to provision a new environment.

<insert create db over image>

## Techniques to Stay Up to Date on Capacity Changes

One of the top concerns with organizations utilizing the Power Platform is staying up to date on capacity to ensure compliance and avoid business disruptions or health degradation. Monitoring capacity trends can help alert administrators to potential harmful activities such as a jump in auditing due to a recent change within an environment.

<insert audit image>

Currently as of this writing, I haven't seen a PowerShell, public API or analytical export that exposes this data. This leaves us with a couple of options depending on a decision to capture this data manually or to build an automated solution. 

### Manual Approach

To manually capture this data, administrators can follow the steps above and in the documentation to download and store the CSV files locally or within Azure Blob Storage for analysis.  

### Automated Approach

To capture with an automated process, we will look at a couple of solutions utilizing Microsoft and community supported tooling to capture.

#### No or Low Code Approach with UI and Desktop Flows

One of the major benefits of the Power Platform is the concept of makers having the ability to quickly design solutions without being bogged down with learning the intricacies of a new API or technology. Luckily, the Power Platform does include the ability to automate web tasks such as this.

### A No Code Approach with Flow

ddd

## Next Steps

In this article we have covered getting started with the **Power Automate Management and Admin Connectors**. Each offers unique actions to help administrators report and taken action on environment flow. Continue exploring the capabilities of these connectors and actions through usage within **Power Automate Flows** or **Canvas Apps**. 

We have also covered the what activities are currently captured for **Power Automate**. Discussed in [**Part 2**](https://community.dynamics.com/crm/b/crminthefield/posts/monitoring-the-power-platform-power-automate---auditing-and-activity-logs-part-2) are techniques to view the audit logs within the **Office 365 Security and Compliance Portal** as well as **automated techniques**. 

This article is designed to supplement the article on **Power Automate Analytics**, which provides more of an all up view of **Power Automate** usage. Combining these two documents, an administrator can now <u>track analytic metrics as well as the events that define those metrics</u>.

If you are interested in learning more about [**specialized guidance and training** for monitoring or other areas of the Power Platform](https://community.dynamics.com/crm/b/crminthefield/posts/pfe-dynamics-365-service-offerings), which includes a [monitoring workshop](https://community.dynamics.com/cfs-file/__key/communityserver-blogs-components-weblogfiles/00-00-00-17-38/WorkshopPLUS-_2D00_-Dynamics-365-Customer-Engagement-Monitoring-with-Application-lnsights-1-Day-with-Lab_2D00_FA5D599F_2D00_20E4_2D00_4087_2D00_A713_2D00_39FBD14DF7E5.pdf), please contact your **Technical Account Manager** or **Microsoft representative** for further details. 

Your feedback is **<u>extremely valuable</u>** so please leave a comment below and I'll be happy to help where I can! Also, if you find any inconsistencies, omissions or have suggestions, [please go here to submit a new issue](https://github.com/aliyoussefi/MonitoringPowerPlatform/issues).

## Index

[Monitoring the Power Platform: Introduction and Index](https://community.dynamics.com/crm/b/crminthefield/posts/monitoring-the-power-platform-introduction)