# Monitoring and the Power Platform: Intelligence

## Summary

The goal of this article is to describe how to implement a monitoring strategy for both Power Automate and the Logic App services. We will explore how to monitor maker modifications such as creating and updating Power Automate flows and connectors. After than we will dive deep into triggers and actions and how to extract information from individual flow runs. We will then look into how to add Application Insights into Power Automate. From there we move into Azure Logic Applications and how to monitor with Azure Monitor, previously known as Log Analytics.

## Overview of Power Virtual Agent

Power Automate, previously known as Microsoft Flow, is a citizen developer platform allowing for connecting and integration dispersed systems. Featuring a graphical user interface and features such as Power Automate Checker, the Power Automate platform is designed from the ground up as a all up solution for citizen developers. The platform allows makers to design and build My Flows and share with their team members. Flows can range from many different use cases, from scheduled CRON like jobs to webhooks and button presses kicking off maker crafted workflows. Sending emails and notifications, responding to data changes can all be done without writing a single line of code!

### Power Automate and the Power Platform

Power Automate is part of and integral to the Power Platform suite. It can be used to connect and perform actions across PowerApps and Power Virtual Agents. For PowerApps Model Driven Apps, Power Automate flows are native to the platform and provide citizen developers and administrators to not only reference Power Automate from the platform UI but to migrate and deploy customizations via solutions.

Creating what is called solution aware Power Automate flows is key to not only continuous delivery but also continuous monitoring. Solution aware Power Automate flows leverage the Common Data Service (CDS) and with that can provide valuable insights. The PowerApps Portal can be leveraged to show analytics while the PowerShell cmdlets can show runs across an environment and not scoped to an individual user.

## Monitoring Power Virtual Agent Sessions

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-virtual-agents/analytics-sessions

Conversation Transcripts Entity

## Monitoring Power Virtual Agent Usage and Analytics

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-virtual-agents/analytics-topic-details

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-virtual-agents/analytics-overview

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-virtual-agents/analytics-csat

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-virtual-agents/analytics-billed-sessions

Omni Channel

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dynamics365/omnichannel/omnichannel-readme



## Monitoring Power Virtual Agent Sessions

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-virtual-agents/analytics-sessions

Conversation Transcripts Entity

