# Monitoring the Power Platform: Power Automate - Power Automate Desktop Runs and Sessions

## Summary

[**Microsoft Power Automate**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-automate/getting-started) provides users the ability to quickly create and integrate applications within the enterprise. With this ability comes concerns with governance to ensure users are allowed the appropriate permissions as well as identifying specific connections created and shared across the organization. **Power Automate Flows** offer a wide array of connectors and the ability to identify which of these are used and the connections created is essential to applying security policies to the **Power Platform**. 

This article begins by discussing the concept of **solution aware flows**. After that, we will briefly touch on the **Power Automate** admin connectors available for both **Power Automate Flows**. Tool sets for **PowerShell** will be explored that allow administrators tight control and visibility across a tenant. Finally the audited events for **Power Automate** will be detailed which will lead us into the **Office 365 Security and Compliance** topic.

## What is a Power Automate Desktop Flow?

[Introduction to Power Automate Desktop - Power Automate | Microsoft Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-automate/desktop-flows/introduction#:~:text=Power Automate Desktop allows you to automate both,machine using application UI elements%2C images%2C or coordinates.)

Power Automate Desktop provides organizations a complete solution to bridge gaps between modern and legacy systems. Most modern systems today

## Using the Maker Portal to view Power Automate Desktop actions runs

The flow session table

Extracting flow session context



## Next Steps

In this article we have covered getting started with the **Power Automate Management and Admin Connectors**. Each offers unique actions to help administrators report and taken action on environment flow. Continue exploring the capabilities of these connectors and actions through usage within **Power Automate Flows** or **Canvas Apps**. 

We have also covered the what activities are currently captured for **Power Automate**. Discussed in [**Part 2**](https://community.dynamics.com/crm/b/crminthefield/posts/monitoring-the-power-platform-power-automate---auditing-and-activity-logs-part-2) are techniques to view the audit logs within the **Office 365 Security and Compliance Portal** as well as **automated techniques**. 

This article is designed to supplement the article on **Power Automate Analytics**, which provides more of an all up view of **Power Automate** usage. Combining these two documents, an administrator can now <u>track analytic metrics as well as the events that define those metrics</u>.

If you are interested in learning more about [**specialized guidance and training** for monitoring or other areas of the Power Platform](https://community.dynamics.com/crm/b/crminthefield/posts/pfe-dynamics-365-service-offerings), which includes a [monitoring workshop](https://community.dynamics.com/cfs-file/__key/communityserver-blogs-components-weblogfiles/00-00-00-17-38/WorkshopPLUS-_2D00_-Dynamics-365-Customer-Engagement-Monitoring-with-Application-lnsights-1-Day-with-Lab_2D00_FA5D599F_2D00_20E4_2D00_4087_2D00_A713_2D00_39FBD14DF7E5.pdf), please contact your **Technical Account Manager** or **Microsoft representative** for further details. 

Your feedback is **<u>extremely valuable</u>** so please leave a comment below and I'll be happy to help where I can! Also, if you find any inconsistencies, omissions or have suggestions, [please go here to submit a new issue](https://github.com/aliyoussefi/MonitoringPowerPlatform/issues).

## Index

[Monitoring the Power Platform: Introduction and Index](https://community.dynamics.com/crm/b/crminthefield/posts/monitoring-the-power-platform-introduction)