# Monitoring DLP Policies

## Policy Summary

## Locking Down v Opening Up and Alerting on an environment

DLP Policies allow administrators the ability to add governance to a Dataverse environment used by licensed users within the tenant. Depending on the nature of the environment administrators may choose to go with various approaches on what connectors makers and users can interact with. Power User environments for instance may allow for more flexibility than environments used as personal productivity environments. For personal productivity environments these are highly restricted, this helps reduce intermingling of business and non-business as well as data or licensing sprawl. I highly recommend reviewing Denise Moran's article [Establishing an Environment Strategy for Microsoft Power Platform | Microsoft Power Apps](https://powerapps.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/establishing-an-environment-strategy-for-microsoft-power-platform/) for guidance on environment strategies. The article also documents how to establish DLP policies for these environments:

Personal Productivity:

"To reduce risk to data, the types of connectors used in your apps and flows should be limited to a less permissive data loss prevention (DLP) policy. This policy should cover common individual and small team productivity use cases, like working with SharePoint data, sending emails, and having an approval workflow."

Power Users:

"For this purpose, we recommend creating a power user environment. This shared environment should use mre permissive DLP policies and admins should control the maker list to this environment."

I typically see environments used for production workloads well vetted and locked down with DLP policies than standard maker environments. 



### Disable trials

## Impact on Existing Apps and Flows

As documented in the article [Impact of DLP policies on apps and flows - Power Platform | Microsoft Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/admin/dlp-impact-policies-apps-flows#runtime-impact-on-apps-and-flows) DLP policy restrictions are enforced at both design and run time. Design time restriction is straight forward, a maker will be prompted with an error message and information to learn more. This prompt is displayed when a user attempts to add a connector to a Power App or save a Power Automate flow. Power Automate will save the flow but will keep it in a suspended state until the DLP violation is removed.

<insert image>

For run time usage of Power Apps, users will be prompted with a message that will inform them that the app is not compliant. This messaging can be customized using the PowerShell script mentioned below.

For users looking to invoke a Power Automate flow, they will see the flow marked as suspended. That said, **existing flows that are currently running will continue to run as they have preserved the state of the flow at time of execution.** Previous research for impact of approval flow changes indicates that the state of the flow is retained on execution.

Finally for admins, as noted by the article linked above, the flow suspension process uses a polling mechanism. The DLP policy changes will take roughly five minutes to be marked as suspended. If immediate restriction is needed, consider flow run modifications. These modifications can be made at scale using the DLP SDK.

## Applying Custom Tenant Messages

An obscure but very useful feature is to apply custom DLP violation messaging to a tenant. This allow admins to provide contact information to makers or users who may need access to a connector that is restricted. Also, the messaging allows for a custom URL to be provided that can be used for self-remediation, important notices, business justification, etc.

To set this messaging, use the DLP SDK within the Microsoft.PowerApps.Administration PowerShell module. The specific command is called **[New-PowerAppDlpErrorSettings](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/admin/powerapps-powershell#governance-error-message-content-commands)**. The command allows admins much needed flexibility to add custom messaging. The example below is used to set a tenant wide message to contact the DLP security team and a SharePoint link for business justification requests.

```
New-PowerAppDlpErrorSettings -TenantId $tenant -ErrorSettings @{  
  ErrorMessageDetails = @{ 
    enabled = $True  
    url = "https://aka.ms/contosoGovernance" 
  } 
  ContactDetails= @{  
    enabled = $True 
    email = "dlp_support@contoso.com" 
  } 
} 
```

I would recommend using an alias for both the URL and email address. Consider a shortened URL (e.g. https://aka.ms/contosoGovernance) and a distribution list (e.g. dlp_support@contoso.com) for the email address. To update, use the **[Set-PowerAppDlpErrorSettings](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/power-platform/admin/powerapps-powershell#update-governance-error-message-content)** command.

Here is an image of a custom error message a user will receive for a blocked connector:

<insert contoso image>

## Exempting Resources

Exempting resources allows administrators the ability to white list an app or flow in a specific DLP policy. This is useful for business critical applications that need to continue to run using blocked connectors. This can also serve as a safe guard that this application will continue to run even if a DLP policy is changed restricting a connector used by the app or flow. 

This, used in combination with the custom tenant messaging, is useful to provide granular control and access. When an admin does apply the exemption policy it is for the entire connector not just specific actions. Be mindful of what actions will be exposed. If necessary consider moving the exempted resources into their own specific environment with its own DLP policy.

Governance on exempted resources is extremely important and I recommend having a process that runs regularly to identify the exempted resources. If this number grows or shrinks we should alert the appropriate channels to take action. Alternatively, an automated approach can be taken to ensure non-exempted resources are allowed to be added. Let's look at the below architecture:



## 

## Logging DLP to Log Analytics

## Wrap Up