# Monitoring the Power Platform: Power Apps Portal - Implementing Diagnostic Logging
## Summary

[**Power Apps Portal**](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powerapps/maker/portals/overview#:~:text=Power%20Apps%20portals%20are%20based%20on%20Bootstrap%203.3.x,Bootstrap%203.3.x.%20Certain%20experiences%20might%20have%20known%20issues.) represent a unique offering to the **Power Platform**, one that allows the **Power Platform** to reach virtually any and all users your enterprise wants to connect to. It represents the external face of your enterprise to your users, allowing them to interact with other users as well as internal representatives. Users can now provide updates and artifacts to the **Common Data Service** without the need to communicate with your enterprise reps, freeing them to focus on providing the best customer experience available. **Power Apps Portal** allow its users to interact anonymously and login using their preferred identity of choice, opening up the **Common Data Service** like never before.

This article will focus on how **Power Apps Portal** administrators can implement a monitoring strategy to better understand their user base. Insights into user traffic and interactions with the **Power Apps Portal** can all be tracked. Using this data, your organization can focus on how to better serve your customer base and provide an optimal solution and experience. 

In this article we focus on configuring Azure Blob Storage for capturing diagnostic logs from a **Power Apps Portal**. We explore how to configure and provide context which will provide rich and meaningful telemetry.



## The Power Apps Portal Administration Page



## Azure Blob Storage



## Reviewing Blobs





## Reviewing Initial Messages in Azure Application Insights



## Sample Code

The sample code used in this article can be found in the [**MonitoringPowerPlatform** GitHub repo located here](https://github.com/aliyoussefi/MonitoringPowerPlatform/blob/master/Samples/PowerAppsPortals/AppInsights/ApplicationInsightsV2_SnippetAndExample.js).



## Next Steps

 

In this article we have discussed how to set up **Azure Application Insights** with **Power Apps Portals**. We covered using the content snippet to add the **Azure Application Insights JavaScript SDK**. We discussed how to extend the SDK to include values from liquid templating and window objects. Finally we reviewed page views and how they can represented in **Application Insights**.

For next steps, [continue exploring liquid templating](https://stoneridgesoftware.com/using-liquid-templates-and-fetchxml-to-retrieve-data-in-a-dynamics-365-online-portal/) and how to continuous enrich your messages sent to Azure Application Insights. Consider the custom property and metrics bag and how these can be supplemented with **Common Data Service** content or browser resource timings. Continuing this series we will cover how to implement and use **Azure Blob Storage** for diagnostic logging.

If you are interested in learning more about [**specialized guidance and training** for monitoring or other areas of the Power Platform](https://community.dynamics.com/crm/b/crminthefield/posts/pfe-dynamics-365-service-offerings), which includes a [monitoring workshop](https://community.dynamics.com/cfs-file/__key/communityserver-blogs-components-weblogfiles/00-00-00-17-38/WorkshopPLUS-_2D00_-Dynamics-365-Customer-Engagement-Monitoring-with-Application-lnsights-1-Day-with-Lab_2D00_FA5D599F_2D00_20E4_2D00_4087_2D00_A713_2D00_39FBD14DF7E5.pdf), please contact your **Technical Account Manager** or **Microsoft representative** for further details.

Your feedback is **extremely valuable** so please leave a comment below and I'll be happy to help where I can! Also, if you find any inconsistencies, omissions or have suggestions, [please go here to submit a new issue](https://github.com/aliyoussefi/MonitoringPowerPlatform/issues).

## Index

 

[Monitoring the Power Platform: Introduction and Index](https://community.dynamics.com/crm/b/crminthefield/posts/monitoring-the-power-platform-introduction)



